
File system information
=======================

A file system is a set of files, directories and other structures.
The file systems maintain information and identify where the data
is located on the disk for a file or directory. 

* Ext2

The ext2 or second extended file system is a file system for the Linux
kernel.  It was initially designed by Remy Card as a replacement for
the extended file system (ext).  Having been designed according to the
same principles as the Berkeley Fast File System from BSD, it was the
first commercial-grade filesystem for GNU/Linux.

ext2 is still the filesystem of choice for flash-based storage media
(such as SD cards and USB flash drives) because its lack of a journal
increases performance and minimizes the number of writes, and flash
devices have a limited number of write cycles.

* Ext3

ext3, or third extended filesystem, is a journaled file system that is
commonly used by the Linux kernel.  It used to be the default file
system for many popular GNU/Linux distributions.  Stephen Tweedie first
revealed that he was working on extending ext2 in Journaling the Linux
ext2fs Filesystem in a 1998 paper, and later in a February 1999 kernel
mailing list posting.  The filesystem was merged with the mainline
Linux kernel in November 2001 from 2.4.15 onward.  Its main advantage
over ext2 is journaling, which improves reliability and eliminates the
need to check the file system after an unclean shutdown.

Ext3 is suitable for both 32-bit and 64-bit systems.  It is the default
choice in Dragora.

* Ext4

The ext4 journaling file system or fourth extended filesystem is a
journaling file system for GNU/Linux, developed as the successor to
ext3.  Ext4 extends the storage limits and has other performance
improvements over ext2 and ext3.

We suggest using it more for a 64-bit system than for a 32-bit system.

* JFS

Journaled File System or JFS is a 64-bit journaling file system created
by IBM.  The JFS file system contains a superblock, allocation maps and
one or more allocation groups.  Each file system occupies one logical
volume.  JFS is fast and reliable, with consistently good performance
under different kinds of load, contrary to other filesystems that seem
to perform better under particular usage patterns, for instance with
small or large files.  Another characteristic often mentioned (out
there), is that it is light and efficient with available system
resources and even heavy disk activity is realized with low CPU usage.
Especially for databases which need synchronous writes to survive a
hardware crash, JFS with external journal seems to be the best option.
File fragmentation on JFS impairs filesystem performance less than on
more traditional Linux ext3 filesystems.

Actual usage of JFS in GNU/Linux is uncommon, as ext4 typically offers
better performance.

* XFS

XFS is a high-performance 64-bit journaling file system created by
Silicon Graphics, Inc (SGI) in 1993.  It was the default file system
in SGI's IRIX operating system starting with its version 5.3.
XFS was ported to the Linux kernel in 2001; as of June 2014, XFS is
supported by most GNU/Linux distributions, some of which use it as the
default file system. 

XFS excels in the execution of parallel input/output (I/O) operations
due to its design, which is based on allocation groups (a type of
subdivision of the physical volumes in which XFS is used- also
shortened to AGs). Because of this, XFS enables extreme scalability of
I/O threads, file system bandwidth, and size of files and of the file
system itself when spanning multiple physical storage devices.
XFS ensures the consistency of data by employing metadata journaling
and supporting write barriers.  Space allocation is performed via
extents with data structures stored in B+ trees, improving the overall
performance of the file system, especially when handling large files.
Delayed allocation assists in the prevention of file system
fragmentation; online defragmentation is also supported.

A feature unique to XFS is the pre-allocation of I/O bandwidth at a
pre-determined rate; this is suitable for many real-time applications.
However, this feature was supported only on IRIX, and only with
specialized hardware.

